DETAILS.md, before:

# Second Opinion MCP — Details

## Configuration

### Environment variables

| Variable                     | Required | Description                                                                            |
| ---------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GEMINI_API_KEY`             | For API  | Google AI API key (Gemini models in API mode)                                          |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY`             | For API  | OpenAI API key (Codex models in API mode)                                              |
| `GEMINI_MODE`                | No       | `api` (default) or `cli`                                                               |
| `OPENAI_MODE`                | No       | `api` (default) or `cli`                                                               |
| `CLAUDE_MODE`                | No       | `cli` (default). `api` currently not implemented                                       |
| `CODEX_REASONING_EFFORT`     | No       | `none`, `minimal`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `xhigh`                                    |
| `GREY_SO_DEFAULT_MODEL`      | No       | Override default model (`gemini-3-pro-preview`, `gpt-5.3-codex`, `claude-opus-4-6`, or `opencode-default`) |
| `GREY_SO_ALLOWED_MODELS`     | No       | Comma-separated subset to advertise in the tool schema                                 |
| `GREY_SO_SYSTEM_PROMPT_PATH` | No       | Custom path to system prompt file                                                      |

If the `model` argument is omitted in `get_advice`, it defaults to
`gemini-3-pro-preview` unless overridden by `GREY_SO_DEFAULT_MODEL` or narrowed
by `GREY_SO_ALLOWED_MODELS`.

### Mode compatibility note

This project supports a mix of API-backed and CLI-backed providers, and some
provider/mode combinations are currently more mature than others.

- Gemini and Codex can run in `api` or `cli` mode.
- Claude is currently CLI-only in practice (`CLAUDE_MODE=api` is not
  implemented).
- Opencode is currently CLI-only (`opencode-default` model).

If you switch between subscription/CLI and API-based usage, make sure the
matching env vars are set (`*_MODE`, API keys, and CLI auth state). Some mixed
combinations may still be unsupported or less stable as of now.

### CLI mode

Instead of API calls, the server can shell out to locally installed CLI tools.
This is useful if you already have the CLIs authenticated.

**Gemini CLI:**

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -e GEMINI_MODE=cli -- npx -y grey-so
```

Requires the [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) installed
and authenticated (`gemini login`).

**Codex CLI:**

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -e OPENAI_MODE=cli -- npx -y grey-so
```

Requires the Codex CLI installed and authenticated (`codex login`).

**Claude CLI:**

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -e CLAUDE_MODE=cli -- npx -y grey-so
```

Requires Claude Code installed and authenticated.

**Opencode CLI:**

Use model `opencode-default` to route through your local Opencode CLI.

## Customization

### System prompt

The system prompt shapes how the consultant LLM responds. To customize it:

```bash
npx grey-so init-prompt
```

This creates `~/.grey-so/SYSTEM_PROMPT.md` with the default prompt. Edit it to
suit your needs — changes take effect immediately, no restart required.

To use a project-specific prompt instead:

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so \
  -e GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key \
  -e GREY_SO_SYSTEM_PROMPT_PATH=./prompts/SYSTEM_PROMPT.md \
  -- npx -y grey-so
```

## Advanced usage

### Slash command

Save [examples/consult.md](examples/consult.md) as
`~/.claude/commands/consult.md`, then invoke with:

```
/consult ask gemini about the race condition in server.ts
```

The slash command instructs the agent to gather relevant files before calling
the tool — more reliable than relying on natural language inference alone.

### Skill

Save [examples/SKILL.md](examples/SKILL.md) as
`~/.claude/skills/grey-so/SKILL.md`. The agent will then automatically trigger
the tool when you say "ask gemini", "ask codex", or "ask claude".

### Querying multiple models

You can ask multiple models in parallel and compare:

```
> /consult ask gemini, codex, and claude about how to fix the race condition
```

The agent will make parallel `get_advice` calls and summarize where the models
agree or differ.

## Development

For development without rebuilding:

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -- npm run dev
```

This runs TypeScript source directly with `tsx`. After changes, restart the
agent to pick up the new version. To unlink: `npm unlink -g`.

To catch stale compiled output before publishing or sharing, run:

```bash
npm run check:dist-fresh
```

This fails if any `src/*.ts` file is newer than its corresponding `dist/*.js`
file or if required dist files are missing.

Commit message:

use kilo code instead of opencode. drop opencode

DETAILS.md, after:

# Second Opinion MCP — Details

## Configuration

### Environment variables

| Variable                     | Required | Description                                                                                                |
| ---------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GEMINI_API_KEY`             | For API  | Google AI API key (Gemini models in API mode)                                                              |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY`             | For API  | OpenAI API key (Codex models in API mode)                                                                  |
| `GEMINI_MODE`                | No       | `api` (default) or `cli`                                                                                   |
| `OPENAI_MODE`                | No       | `api` (default) or `cli`                                                                                   |
| `CLAUDE_MODE`                | No       | `cli` (default). `api` currently not implemented                                                           |
| `CODEX_REASONING_EFFORT`     | No       | `none`, `minimal`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `xhigh`                                                        |
| `GREY_SO_DEFAULT_MODEL`      | No       | Override default model (`gemini-3-pro-preview`, `gpt-5.3-codex`, `claude-opus-4-6`, or `kilocode-default`) |
| `GREY_SO_ALLOWED_MODELS`     | No       | Comma-separated subset to advertise in the tool schema                                                     |
| `GREY_SO_SYSTEM_PROMPT_PATH` | No       | Custom path to system prompt file                                                                          |

If the `model` argument is omitted in `get_advice`, it defaults to
`gemini-3-pro-preview` unless overridden by `GREY_SO_DEFAULT_MODEL` or narrowed
by `GREY_SO_ALLOWED_MODELS`.

### Mode compatibility note

This project supports a mix of API-backed and CLI-backed providers, and some
provider/mode combinations are currently more mature than others.

- Gemini and Codex can run in `api` or `cli` mode.
- Claude is currently CLI-only in practice (`CLAUDE_MODE=api` is not
  implemented).
- Kilocode is currently CLI-only (`kilocode-default` model).

If you switch between subscription/CLI and API-based usage, make sure the
matching env vars are set (`*_MODE`, API keys, and CLI auth state). Some mixed
combinations may still be unsupported or less stable as of now.

### CLI mode

Instead of API calls, the server can shell out to locally installed CLI tools.
This is useful if you already have the CLIs authenticated.

**Gemini CLI:**

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -e GEMINI_MODE=cli -- npx -y grey-so
```

Requires the [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) installed
and authenticated (`gemini login`).

**Codex CLI:**

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -e OPENAI_MODE=cli -- npx -y grey-so
```

Requires the Codex CLI installed and authenticated (`codex login`).

**Claude CLI:**

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -e CLAUDE_MODE=cli -- npx -y grey-so
```

Requires Claude Code installed and authenticated.

**Kilocode CLI:**

Use model `kilocode-default` to route through your local Kilocode CLI.

## Customization

### System prompt

The system prompt shapes how the consultant LLM responds. To customize it:

```bash
npx grey-so init-prompt
```

This creates `~/.grey-so/SYSTEM_PROMPT.md` with the default prompt. Edit it to
suit your needs — changes take effect immediately, no restart required.

To use a project-specific prompt instead:

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so \
  -e GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key \
  -e GREY_SO_SYSTEM_PROMPT_PATH=./prompts/SYSTEM_PROMPT.md \
  -- npx -y grey-so
```

## Advanced usage

### Slash command

Save [examples/consult.md](examples/consult.md) as
`~/.claude/commands/consult.md`, then invoke with:

```
/consult ask gemini about the race condition in server.ts
```

The slash command instructs the agent to gather relevant files before calling
the tool — more reliable than relying on natural language inference alone.

### Skill

Save [examples/SKILL.md](examples/SKILL.md) as
`~/.claude/skills/grey-so/SKILL.md`. The agent will then automatically trigger
the tool when you say "ask gemini", "ask codex", or "ask claude".

### Querying multiple models

You can ask multiple models in parallel and compare:

```
> /consult ask gemini, codex, and claude about how to fix the race condition
```

The agent will make parallel `get_advice` calls and summarize where the models
agree or differ.

## Development

For development without rebuilding:

```bash
claude mcp add grey-so -- npm run dev
```

This runs TypeScript source directly with `tsx`. After changes, restart the
agent to pick up the new version. To unlink: `npm unlink -g`.

To catch stale compiled output before publishing or sharing, run:

```bash
npm run check:dist-fresh
```

This fails if any `src/*.ts` file is newer than its corresponding `dist/*.js`
file or if required dist files are missing.
